# README

## Introduction to In-class Assignment 4

This assignment is about working with the ANTLR4 tool

- Due: End of lecture
- Deliverables: Submit paper writeup

## Background

In this assignment, we'll be working with the ANTLR4 tool. This tool allows you to analyze various context free
grammars.

To use the tool, open a terminal (in Visual Studio Code, use the "Terminal" menu > "New Terminal"

If you're on Windows, run these two commands (the first command is only needed once):

    . run.ps1
    runparse parta.g4 expr -gui input-a1.txt

If you're on MacOS, run this command

    ./runaparse.zsh parta.g4 expr -gui input-a1.txt

And if you're on Linux, run this command

    ./runaparse.sh parta.g4 expr -gui input-a1.txt

## Part A

There is a file called parta.g4. Study the grammar contained within. 

The first line of the file describes the name of the grammar, and should always be equal to the name of the file (i.e. parta.g4 should have the line `grammar parta;`)

After that there are several lines of scanner rules. ANTLR can act as both a parser and a scanner at the same time, and these define the scanner regular expressions.

After that are the parser rules that we are interested in in this assignment.

Open the files input-a1.txt and input-a2.txt. Record the strings in the provided sheet of paper, and draw the parse tree that was generated by ANTLR.

## Part B

There is a file called partb.g4. The file currently contains an *incorrect* grammar for arithmetic expressions.

Open the files input-b1.txt and input-b2.txt. Record the strings in the provided sheet of paper, and draw the (incorrect) parse tree that was generated by ANTLR.

Fix the incorrect grammar, and draw the fixed parse tree.
